Docs: revise the LogCLI subsection (#3921)
grafana/loki: docs/sources/getting-started/logcli.md

---
title: LogCLI
---
# LogCLI, Loki's command-line interface

LogCLI is the command-line interface to Loki.
It facilitates running [LogQL]({{< relref "../logql/_index.md" >}})
queries against a Loki instance.

## Installation

### Binary (Recommended)

Download the `logcli` binary from the
[Loki releases page](https://github.com/grafana/loki/releases).

### From source

Install `logcli` to your `$GOPATH/bin`:

```
go get github.com/grafana/loki/cmd/logcli
```

## LogCLI usage

### Grafana Cloud example

If you are running on Grafana Cloud, use:

```bash

> export LOKI_ADDR=https://logs-us-west1.grafana.net

Reviewer: Love these changes - can finally copy/paste docs!

> export LOKI_ADDR=https://logs-us-west1.grafana.net

Reviewer: love these changes - can copy/paste now!

{app="loki", container_name="loki", controller_revision_hash="loki-57c9df47f4", filename="/var/log/pods/loki_loki-0_8ed03ded-bacb-4b13-a6fe-53a445a15887/loki/0.log", instance="loki-0", job="loki/loki", name="loki", namespace="loki", release="loki", statefulset_kubernetes_io_pod_name="loki-0", stream="stderr"}
```

### Batched queries

LogCLI sends queries to Loki such that query results arrive in batches.

The `--limit` option for a `logcli query` command caps the quantity of
log lines for a single query.
When not set, `--limit` defaults to 30.

> This low default value protects the user from overwhelming the system

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The limit protects the user from overwhelming the system
```

for cases in which the specified query would have returned a large quantity

> of log lines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of log lines as well as the user from unexpectedly large responses.
```
